This year's drama, Commit Your Way to Jehovah,
was inspired by the real experiences of real families.
Worldwide, the number of people forcibly displaced by conflicts,
violence, persecution, and other disruptive events
has now passed 100 million, the highest on record.
This figure includes many of our brothers and sisters and their children.
Let's review some scenes from the drama and consider what lessons we can learn from them.
1. We must immediately and completely reject any compromise of our political neutrality.
At first, a money firmly declined Denea's job offer
because it involved membership in a political party.
But later, family pressure and the lure of money caused him to waver
and it almost cost him his life, too.
We must be alert to influences that can shape our thinking.
Amani's fellow elders followed the direction from the branch office
to prepare the congregation to flee.
But Amani's past experiences and strong feelings made him think he knew better.
3. We must be ready to flee in times of danger,
even being ready, as Jesus said, to say goodbye to all our belongings.
Yakubu, Sifa, and Musa took the direction seriously and got ready,
but Amani hesitated.
What about you?
Do you have a go-bag with essentials, important documents,
and an up-to-date list of emergency contacts, including those of your congregation elders?
Have you rehearsed an evacuation plan with your family?
4. We need to train our children to obey and trust Jehovah no matter what happens.
When children are well-trained, they can remain faithful even if they're separated from their parents.
What would your children do?
Let's see what helped Amani and Zawadi to make good decisions on their own.
What are we going to do?
Well, Dad said to keep on going towards the camp, remember?
Okay, but which way is the camp? There are two directions.
Well, I think the camp's that way.
I actually know I think it's that way.
How about always praise before making a decision?
You're right.
Let's pray together and ask Jehovah to help us.
5. We must have strong faith.
This time, Amani kindly but firmly rejected Dania's pressure to return home.
Amani trusted in Jehovah and in the direction from his organization.
He did not waver and he counted on Mombi and Zawadi to be faithful to.
6. We must make the best of our circumstances wherever we are.
Did you notice how Amani and the other brothers and sisters kept life as normal and stable as possible?
They played with their children. They kept themselves in their clothes clean and their campsite sanitary.
They socialized with friends. They kept up their routine of preaching, studying and attending meetings.
And they helped others.
7. We must show love for our brothers and others who are in need.
Not just in word, but indeed and truth.
When disaster strike, our branch offices spring into action to provide material and spiritual aid.
We can help too by giving of our time and resources and by praying for our displaced brothers and sisters
and for those who are helping them.
The love we show among ourselves may also help still more people to take Jehovah's side.
Besides political crises, floods, wildfires and other disasters are increasing in frequency and destructiveness clearly.
All things are not continuing exactly as from creation's beginning.
Yet as bad as world conditions are now, Jesus said they'll get worse.
Worse than they've ever been in all of this world's terrible history.
Although we need to prepare in practical ways, we cannot prepare for everything.
Our survival and our salvation depend on committing our way to Jehovah.
So never allow pride, family, culture, money, possessions or anything else come between you and Jehovah.
Strengthen your faith and trust by absorbing Jehovah's thoughts found in the Bible and by staying close to your brothers and sisters.
You can count on Jehovah and our brotherhood to help you endure.
And may your constant prayer be to continue walking in Jehovah's way right on into the new world where he will make all things new.